# SecretShare - Password or other secret sharing tool
This tool is designed to encrypt and store secrets, such as a password, for sharing amongst users.

In the best of times, emailing a password or similar piece of sensitive data is not a good idea, but it is **sometimes necessary**. Using a secure, ephemeral link generator helps eliminate the risk of having persistently stored secrets in an inbox or chat message.

This tool will delete the secret after a user chosen expiration date or number of views (whichever happens first).

## Security / Encryption
If you find any problems with the security of this tool, please open an issue.

When configured, this tool will accept a 'secret' from a user. Once the user submits, the secret is **client side encrypted** using the Javascript WebCrypto API. The encrypted data is then sent to the server and the server will then encrypt the data again using a server side key.

For both encryption operations, *AES-256* is used in *GCM* mode.

With this configuration, zero-knowledge is established because the server never receives an unencrypted secret. The AES key for client side encryption is generated by the browser, and appended to the end of the URL by javascript, after the hash (#) so that the key is never exposed to the server.

## Requirements
This tool was built on PHP 8.4.2. You will also need:

- An up to date version of MariaDB or MySQL Server
- PHP must have mysqli available
- A webserver that supports rewrites, as this tool uses a PHP router. The tool ships with a `.htaccess` file included. If you are using nginx or another webserver, please tweak appropriately for your environment.
- SSL is **required** for this tool to function, unless you are running it in `localhost` as the WebCrypto APIs will not function in an insecure context.

## Setup
The public files for this tool live in the `public` directory. The web server should only expose the `public` directory!

- Download the latest release and upload it to your server
- Rename or copy `_config.sample.php` to `_config.php`
- Create a database on your MySQL server that will be used by the tool (be sure to note the datbase name, username, and password)
- Fill in the appropriate constants as documented in `_config.php`
**NOTE:** Properly generating a random encryption key is **essential** to ensure secure server side encryption. The best way to do this is with OpenSSL by running `openssl rand -hex 32`. The encryption key MUST be 32 bytes (256 bits) and must be hex encoded.
- Once everything is ready, navigate to `https://your.host.name/install` and follow the instructions to complete the database setup
- Once the database is configured, set the `INSTALLED` flag to `true` in `_config.php`. This will prevent the installer from being reused.
- You will then need to configure a cron job or scheduled task (see below)

### Generating a key with Windows
If you are using a machine without OpenSSL available, a key can be generated in Windows PowerShell:
```
$key = new-Object byte[] 32
[System.Security.Cryptography.RandomNumberGenerator]::Create().GetBytes($key)
[Convert]::ToHexString($key)
# Example Output: 3866A6F474F0A6C1D4C551836485D1EB63257E3B8C509C720CB824C3B02211B5
```

### Setting up the Cron
A cron job or scheduled task should run every minute to ensure that expired secrets are promptly deleted from the database. You can do this with either an HTTP call, or a CLI call.

**CLI (recommended)**: Use php to call `/path/to/SecretShare/_cron-cli.php`. Your php executable settings will depend on your hosting environment.

**HTTP:**

- Define the `CRON_SECRET` constant as a random, URL safe value
- Call the `https://your.host.name/cron/{CRON_SECRET}` every minute

## SecretShare Requires Its Own Hostname
This tool must run in its on hostname, but a subdomain is acceptable. For example, using `share.example.com` should work great but using `example.com/share` will *not* work.